[Version 9.0] Feature support for more partial methods (#1468)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/classes.md

- The declaration may include the `abstract` and `override` modifiers so that an abstract member may override a virtual member.
- If the declaration includes the `private` modifier, then the declaration does not include any of the following modifiers: `virtual`, `override`, or `abstract`.
- If the declaration includes the `sealed` modifier, then the declaration also includes the `override` modifier.
- If the declaration includes the `partial` modifier, then it does not include the modifier `abstract`.
- If the declaration is for a required partial method (§required-partial-methods), then it does not include any of the following modifiers: `new`, `public`, `protected`, `internal`, `private`, `virtual`, `sealed`, `override`, or `extern`.

Methods are classified according to what, if anything, they return:

- If `ref` is present, the method is ***returns-by-ref*** and returns a *variable reference*, that is optionally read-only;
- Otherwise, if *return_type* is `void`, the method is ***returns-no-value*** and does not return a value;
- Otherwise, the method is ***returns-by-value*** and returns a value.

> The *return_type* of a returns-by-value or returns-no-value method declaration specifies the type of the result, if any, returned by the method. If the declaration includes the `async` modifier then *return_type* shall be `void` or the method returns-by-value and the return type is a *task type* ([§15.14.1](classes.md#15141-general)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *return_type* of a returns-by-value or returns-no-value method declaration specifies the type of the result, if any, returned by the method. If the declaration includes the `async` modifier then *return_type* shall be `void` or the method returns-by-value and the return type shall be a *task type* ([§15.14.1](classes.md#15141-general)).
```

### 15.6.9 Partial methods

#### §partial-methods-general General

When a *method declaration* includes a `partial` modifier, that method is said to be a ***partial method***. Partial methods may only be declared as members of partial types ([§15.2.7](classes.md#1527-partial-type-declarations)). Partial methods may be defined in one part of a type declaration and implemented in another.

In *method_declaration*, the identifier `partial` is recognized as a contextual keyword ([§6.4.4](lexical-structure.md#644-keywords)) only if it immediately precedes the *return_type*. A partial method cannot explicitly implement interface methods.

> There are classifications of a partial method declaration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partial method declarations are classified as follows:
```

(Or something else - I'm just not keen on the current wording.)

- A method with an *expression-body* or a *block-body* or is declared with the `extern` modifier is said to be an ***implementing partial method declaration***.
- Otherwise, a method declaration where the body of the method declaration is a semicolon is said to be a ***defining partial method declaration***.

> Across the parts of a type declaration, there shall be exactly one defining partial method declaration with a given signature. For an implementing partial method declaration is given, a corresponding defining partial method declaration shall exist, and the declarations shall match as specified in the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Across the parts of a type declaration, there shall be exactly one defining partial method declaration with a given signature. If an implementing partial method declaration is given, a corresponding defining partial method declaration shall exist, and the declarations shall match as specified in the following:
```

- The declarations shall have the same method name, number of type parameters, and number of parameters.

> - The declarations shall have the same modifiers except for the `async` and `extern` modifiers. The `async` and `extern` modifiers are allowed only on the implementing partial method declaration.

Reviewer: How about readonly? I think it would make sense for an implementation to potentially be readonly even if the declaration isn't - and in that case, I'd expect the readonly-ness to be available elsewhere in the code.

Author: It might make sense, but it is not allowed. If the `readonly` modifier is on a partial member of a struct type, it must be on both the declaration and the implementation.

That is true for both the defining and implementing declarations.

> - Corresponding parameters in the declarations shall have the same modifiers (although not necessarily in the same order) and the same types (modulo differences in type parameter names).

Reviewer: Not sure about the type parameter names - do we have an example of this?

I can't remember what we say elsewhere about tuple types and "sameness" - is it valid to have:

```csharp
partial void M((int x, string y) tuple);

partial void M((int a, string b) otherTuple) { ... }
```

?

Author: Notes: 

- item names for tuples in both partial members must match.
- Different type parameter names generates a warning.
- Different type parameter constraints is an error (including not stating them on the implementation)

- Corresponding type parameters in the declarations shall have the same constraints (modulo differences in type parameter names).

> There are two versions of partial methods: restricted and unrestricted. A ***restricted partial method*** (§restricted-partial-methods) has no explicit access modifiers, and is implicitly private. An ***unrestricted partial method*** (§unrestricted-partial-methods) is a partial method that includes one or more explicit access modifiers.

Reviewer: I'd prefer to avoid the word "version" here. Maybe this is another "classification" (as well as defining/implementing)?

- Otherwise, a method declaration where the body of the method declaration is a semicolon is said to be a ***defining partial method declaration***.

Across the parts of a type declaration, there shall be exactly one defining partial method declaration with a given signature. If an implementing partial method declaration is given, a corresponding defining partial method declaration shall exist, and the declarations shall match as specified in the following:

- The declarations shall have the same method name, number of type parameters, and number of parameters.
- The declarations shall have the same modifiers except for the `async` and `extern` modifiers. The `async` and `extern` modifiers are allowed only on the implementing partial method declaration.
- Corresponding parameters in the declarations shall have the same modifiers (although not necessarily in the same order) and the same types (modulo differences in type parameter names). Tuple types (§8.3.11) used as parameters or return types shall have the same item names in both the defining and implementing partial method declarations.

> - Corresponding type parameters in the declarations shall have the same constraints. An implementation may choose to issue a warning if the type parameter names are different in the defining and implementing declarations.

Reviewer: Do we need this bit about warnings? (I think we generally say implementations can issue warnings whenever they want.)

> There are two classifications of partial methods: required and optional. A ***required partial method*** (§required-partial-methods) has no explicit access modifiers, and is implicitly private. An ***optional partial method*** (§optional-partial-methods) is a partial method that includes one or more explicit access modifiers.

Reviewer: Let's use a different word than "classification" here - given that we've previously said "Partial method declarations are classified as follows" (and then talked about implementing vs defining).

Or we might want to put both "axes" of classification together, to make it clear that they're somewhat orthogonal.

Author: I tried "variation". I was trying to avoid "type"

> For an optional partial method both the definition and implementation shall exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a required partial method both the definition and implementation shall exist.
```

I'm hoping, anyway. It's pretty weird if "required" means "there doesn't have to be an implementation" and "optional" means "there does have to be an implementation".

>
> *end note*

If an implementing declaration exists for a given partial method, the invocations of the partial methods are retained. The partial method gives rise to a method declaration similar to the implementing partial method declaration except for the following:

> - All modifiers except the `partial` modifier are included in the resulting, including any `extern` or `async` modifier declared on the implementing declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All modifiers except the `partial` modifier are included in the resulting method declaration, including any `extern` or `async` modifier declared on the implementing declaration.
```

Separately, it's not clear to me what the impact of this is.

If a restricted partial method has no implementation, any expression statement invoking it is removed from the combined type declaration. Thus, the invocation expression, including any subexpressions, has no effect at run-time. The partial method itself is also removed and will not be a member of the combined type declaration.

If a defining declaration but not an implementing declaration is given for a restricted partial method `M`, the following restrictions apply:

- It is a compile-time error to create a delegate from `M` ([§12.8.17.5](expressions.md#128175-delegate-creation-expressions)).
- It is a compile-time error to refer to `M` inside an anonymous function that is converted to an expression tree type ([§8.6](types.md#86-expression-tree-types)).
- Expressions occurring as part of an invocation of `M` do not affect the definite assignment state ([§9.4](variables.md#94-definite-assignment)), which can potentially lead to compile-time errors.
- `M` cannot be the entry point for an application ([§7.1](basic-concepts.md#71-application-startup)).

#### §unrestricted-partial-methods Unrestricted partial methods

> An unrestriced partial method declartion incluces an explicit access modifier. There shall be exactly one implementing partial method declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An unrestricted partial method declaration incluces an explicit access modifier. There shall be exactly one implementing partial method declaration.
```

}
```

#### §required-partial-methods Required partial methods

> A required partial method shall have a `void` return type, and shall not declare out parameters. There shall be zero or one implementing declaration for each defining declaration. If no part implements the partial method, the partial method declaration and all calls to it are removed from the type declaration resulting from the combination of the parts. Whether or not an implementing declaration is given, invocation expressions may resolve to invocations of the partial method.

Reviewer: Again, this looks like it's the wrong way round. This sounds like it's an optional partial method, given that it's only optionally implemented.

Author: I switched them when I did the global search / replace. Fixed in next commit.
